docs/README.md, before:

Teadal cloud proto
------------------
> ...still very much a work in progress!

Here's some initial dev notes to explain part of what's been done.

- [Dev env][dev-env]. Setting up basic tools to develop and manage
  the Teadal cluster. One-liner install with a virtual env that
  doesn't mess up your box.
- [Cloud rollout][bootstrap]. Assembling a fully-fledged K8s `1.27.1`
  cluster and then doing the initial deployment of our cloud stack—Istio
  & add-ons, Argo CD, etc. We use GitOps at the OS-level too, managing
  nodes remotely through config files in a Git repo. Plus, we can
  reproduce the **exact same stack** on dev boxes to keep "works
  on my machine" accidents from happening.
- [Cluster admin access][admin-access]. Setting up admin access to
  your freshly minted K8s cluster.
- [Whirlwind tour][demo]. Checking out all the goodies packed in the
  Teadal cloud. Not to be missed!
- [Qemu snippets][qemu]. Providing little tips and snippets to use
  Qemu to simulate cloud nodes.
- [OS deployment][os-depl]. Doing GitOps at the OS-level. Keep the
  code that defines OS deployments in a git repo and then apply it
  to a remote set of machines to update their configuration, packages,
  services, etc. The git repo is the single source of truth, the remote
  machines reflect the deployment state declared in the repo.




[admin-access]: ./cluster-admin-access.md
[bootstrap]: ./bootstrap/README.md
[demo]: ./whirlwind-tour.md
[dev-env]: ./dev-env.md
[os-depl]: ./os-deployment.md
[qemu]: ./qemu.md

Commit message:

document security demo and fix up bugs introduced by opa set up.

docs/README.md, after:

Teadal cloud proto
------------------
> ...still very much a work in progress!

Here's some initial dev notes to explain part of what's been done.


### DevOps

- [Dev env][dev-env]. Setting up basic tools to develop and manage
  the Teadal cluster. One-liner install with a virtual env that
  doesn't mess up your box.
- [Cloud rollout][bootstrap]. Assembling a fully-fledged K8s `1.27.1`
  cluster and then doing the initial deployment of our cloud stack—Istio
  & add-ons, Argo CD, etc. We use GitOps at the OS-level too, managing
  nodes remotely through config files in a Git repo. Plus, we can
  reproduce the **exact same stack** on dev boxes to keep "works
  on my machine" accidents from happening.
- [Cluster admin access][admin-access]. Setting up admin access to
  your freshly minted K8s cluster.
- [Qemu snippets][qemu]. Providing little tips and snippets to use
  Qemu to simulate cloud nodes.
- [OS deployment][os-depl]. Doing GitOps at the OS-level. Keep the
  code that defines OS deployments in a git repo and then apply it
  to a remote set of machines to update their configuration, packages,
  services, etc. The git repo is the single source of truth, the remote
  machines reflect the deployment state declared in the repo.


### Features

- [Whirlwind tour][demo]. Checking out all the goodies packed in the
  Teadal cloud. Not to be missed!


### Architecture

- [Security][sec]. Design and implementation of the security architecture,
  with a focus on securing data products.




[admin-access]: ./cluster-admin-access.md
[bootstrap]: ./bootstrap/README.md
[demo]: ./whirlwind-tour.md
[dev-env]: ./dev-env.md
[os-depl]: ./os-deployment.md
[qemu]: ./qemu.md
[sec]: ./sec-design/README.md
